tests-beta/android/MASVS-PRIVACY/MASTG-TEST-0206.md, before:

---
platform: android
title: Sensitive Data in Network Traffic Capture
id: MASTG-TEST-0206
type: [dynamic, network]
weakness: MASWE-0108
prerequisites:
- identify-sensitive-data
- privacy-policy
- app-store-privacy-declarations
profiles: [P]
---

## Overview

Attackers may capture network traffic from Android devices using an intercepting proxy, such as @MASTG-TOOL-0079, @MASTG-TOOL-0077, or @MASTG-TOOL-0097, to analyze the data being transmitted by the app. This works even if the app uses HTTPS, as the attacker can install a custom root certificate on the Android device to decrypt the traffic. Inspecting traffic that is not encrypted with HTTPS is even easier and can be done without installing a custom root certificate for example by using @MASTG-TOOL-0081.

The goal of this test is to verify that sensitive data is not being sent over the network, even if the traffic is encrypted. This test is especially important for apps that handle sensitive data, such as financial or health data, and should be performed in conjunction with a review of the app's privacy policy and the App Store Privacy declarations.

## Steps

1. Start the device.
2. Start logging sensitive data from network traffic (@MASTG-TECH-0100). For example using @MASTG-TOOL-0097.
3. Launch and use the app going through the various workflows while inputting sensitive data wherever you can. Especially, places where you know that will trigger network traffic.

## Observation

The output should contain a network traffic sensitive data log that includes the decrypted HTTPS traffic.

## Evaluation

The test case fails if you can find the sensitive data you entered in the app that is not stated in the App Store Privacy declarations.

Note that this test does not provide any code locations where the sensitive data is being sent over the network. In order to identify the code locations, you can use static analysis tools like @MASTG-TOOL-0110 or dynamic analysis tools like @MASTG-TOOL-0031.

Commit message:

Revise test case for undeclared PII in network traffic
Updated the title and content to specify that the test focuses on undeclared PII in network traffic capture, enhancing clarity on the test's objectives and evaluation criteria.

tests-beta/android/MASVS-PRIVACY/MASTG-TEST-0206.md, after:

---
platform: android
title: Undeclared PII in Network Traffic Capture
id: MASTG-TEST-0206
type: [dynamic, network]
weakness: MASWE-0108
prerequisites:
- identify-sensitive-data
- privacy-policy
- app-store-privacy-declarations
profiles: [P]
---

## Overview

Attackers may capture network traffic from Android devices using an intercepting proxy, such as @MASTG-TOOL-0079, @MASTG-TOOL-0077, or @MASTG-TOOL-0097, to analyze the data being transmitted by the app. This works even if the app uses HTTPS, as the attacker can install a custom root certificate on the Android device to decrypt the traffic. Inspecting traffic that is not encrypted with HTTPS is even easier and can be done without installing a custom root certificate for example by using @MASTG-TOOL-0081.

The goal of this test is to verify that sensitive data, specifically PII, is not being sent over the network, even if the traffic is encrypted. This test is especially important for apps that handle sensitive data, such as financial or health data, and should be performed in conjunction with a review of the app's privacy policy and the Data Safety section declarations in Google Play (if the app is published there).

## Steps

1. Start the device.
2. Start logging sensitive data from network traffic (@MASTG-TECH-0100). For example using @MASTG-TOOL-0097.
3. Launch and use the app going through the various workflows while inputting sensitive data wherever you can. Especially, places where you know that will trigger network traffic.

## Observation

The output should contain a network traffic log that includes the decrypted HTTPS traffic.

## Evaluation

The test case fails if you can find the PII you entered in the app that is not declared in the app's Data Safety section in Google Play (if applicable) and/or in its privacy policy.

Note that this test does not provide any code locations where the sensitive data is being sent over the network. In order to identify the code locations, you can use static analysis tools like @MASTG-TOOL-0110 or dynamic analysis tools like @MASTG-TOOL-0031.
